---
layout: post
title: "PomodoroTechnique: History and who uses it"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


In late 1980s Francesco Cirillo developed a famous time management technique now widely known as Pomodoro Technique. The basic idea of this technique came into his mind in his first year of university life. Pomodoro Technique uses a timer to break down periods of works into 25 minutes intervals called ‘Pomodoro’ separated by breaks. Pomodoro is an Italian word for tomatoes. After the euphoria from completing his first year exam had abated he found himself in a mess, a time of less productivity and high confusion. The exam dates came up so fast that he was not in a position to tackle them so he was disheartened by his performance. Classes went on and on and the work load was increasing day by day so he was very disappointed about the situation which he was facing. 

One day he was thinking about his situation when he started observing his classmate. He started to think critically about his friend and more critically about himself. He questioned his interaction with other people, his organization abilities, the way he studied and other factors. After finding all the answers of his critical thinking he realized that the root cause for his failure was high number of distractions and interruptions and the low level of attentiveness and inspiration were at the root of the confusion he was feeling. So he decided to solve his problem by betting with himself. He started giving himself small challenges and tasks with in a limited timeline which created the motivational and inspirational factor for him. After a lot of hard work and struggle he improved himself a lot. He found himself in a better position to deal with timelines. Step by step he put together the Pomodoro Technique. This Pomodoro Technique is closely related to the concept of time boxing. This technique has some similarities to iterative and incremental development models used in software designing and recently Pomodoro Technique is also adopted in pair programming. Psychologically, the method is based on the idea that frequent breaks can improve mental agility.

 The Pomodoro Technique has been used and adopted successfully by many different kind of people related to different fields, doing all sort of work from software designing to students of universities; from university students to lawyers and executives; whether organizing events, doing project management or getting homework done on time. The best thing about Pomodoro Technique is that it can be used in team as well, which will definitely increase team work and efficiency of team. Frequent breaks keep your mind fresh and focused. According to the official Pomodoro website, the system is easy to use and you will see results very quickly. The Pomodoro Technique is quite affordable for everyone because it is not expensive like other fancy techniques and tools available in the market. You just need a simple timer or you can also use timer programs and other applications available in the market like Pomodoro Easy App which can be used on both computers as well as on mobile phones. The best thing about Pomodoro Technique is that if you don’t get the concept of this technique or it is not helping your cause properly than you can stop using it. 
