---
layout: post
title: "PomodoroTechnique: Measuring Results and Improving"
description: "How to measure results when using the PomodoroTechnique
and how to improve based on these."
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The Pomodoro Technique is an effective method that will allow you to manage time. This technique consists of five stages and those stages are; planning, tracking, recording, processing and visualizing. In planning, different activities are prioritized by recording them in an Activity Inventory Sheet. This gives an idea to the person of the amount of effort and time that is required in performing different tasks. We can create reports based on the recording of these activities which we have completed throughout the day. These are then reserved for analysis of our performance. After each analysis, we can try to improve until we master this technique.

Once you have mastered this technique, you can work on other estimations based on quantitative analysis. Its main objective is to successfully give an idea of how much time will be required to complete a certain task. In the stage of planning you must sort out a plan to complete your objectives and to eradicate any chances of interruptions. If an activity is unable to fulfill its purpose over time, it should be deleted from the Inventory sheet. Every day before starting your activity you must estimate the number of Pomodoro each activity will take. This estimation should only include complete Pomodoro because there is no such thing as half or quarter Pomodoro. Pomodoro is an atomic unit which cannot be divided into further small parts. It is in good practice to divide a task which may take more than 5 Pomodoros to complete. The advantage of dividing a task is not just for Pomodoro accuracy. Dividing activities will make them less difficult. 

While doing a task try not to exceed the number of Pomodoro available for each task. In the end of the day you must record all the tasks which you have completed throughout the day and analyze your performance. The important thing is to see how many Pomodoros you have completed throughout the day. The next day when you plan to prioritize your Activity Inventory Sheet, you must remember the number of Pomodoro you have accomplished the day before. This way you can decide how much more you require in completing a task more efficiently than yesterday. It is better to compare your results each day with the previous one to see how much you have improved. To increase the efficiency of your work you must set up a timetable. After defining the time table it is necessary for you to respect it otherwise it will be of no use. A timetable will help you in measuring the results of each day. Applications available in the market like PomodoroEasy will help you a lot in creating a report of your work and then measuring the results in the best possible way which will lead to improvement. If you constantly apply this technique for twenty days, you will be able to master this technique. Always remember that this technique is for goal-oriented work. Make sure that you do not use it for activities which you perform in your free time.  
